---
title: Organisation and management
---

Organisational structure refers to the levels of management and division of responsibilities within an organisation.

---

Organisational chart refers to a diagram that outlines the internal management structure.

---

Hierarchy refers to the levels of management in any organisation, from the highest to the lowest.

A level of hierarchy refers to managers/supervisors/other employees who are given a similar level of responsibility in an organisation.

---

Chain of command is the structure in an organisation which allows instructions to be passed down from senior management to lower levels of management.

---

The span of control is the number of subordinates working directly under a manager.

---

Directors are senior managers who lead a particular department or division of a business.

---

Line managers have direct responsibility for people below them in the hierarchy of an organisation.

---

Supervisors are junior managers who have direct control over the employees below them in the organisational structure.

---

Staff managers are specialists who provide support, information and assistance to line managers.

---

Delegation means giving a subordinate the authority to perform particular tasks.

---

Leadership styles are the different approaches to dealing with people and making decisions when in a position of authority – autocratic, democratic or laissez-faire.

---

Autocratic leadership is where the manager expects to be in charge of the business and to have their orders followed.

Democratic leadership gets other employees involved in the decision-making process.

---

Laissez-faire leadership makes the broad objectives of the business known to employees, but then they are left to make their own decisions and organise their own work.

---

A trade union is a group of employees who have joined together to ensure their interests are protected.

---

A closed shop is when all employees must be a member of the same trade union.

---
